- [Narrator] Now that you understand the basic
Docker workflow, lets learn the basic concepts
around Docker image and container.
We'll learn how a Docker image can be created
and a container can be run.
Let's start by looking at how we can create a Docker image.
Docker image can be built from a text-based file,
usually called a Dockerfile.
Dockerfile is a text document that contains
all the commands a user could call on the
command line to assemble the image.
Docker runs instructions in a Docker file
in the specified order.
A Dockerfile must start with a FROM instruction.
The FROM instruction specifies a base image
from which you are building.
The base imagine could be an operating system
or another general purpose image built by somebody
and already has some of the tools that
you need for the application.
For example, OpenJDK is an image
that we'll use in our course.
Dockerfile syntax allows multiple instructions.
ADD is one such instruction that copies
new files, directories, or remote file URLs
from a source, and adds them to file system
of the image at the destination path.
Another important instruction is CMD,
that provides defaults for executing container.
If there are multiple CMD instructions then
only the last CMD will take effect.
This is where typically you start
or deploy your application.
Complete set of Dockerfile instructions
are available on docs.docker.com
Here is a sample Dockerfile that uses
Debian operating system as indicated
by the FROM statement, as a base image,
and echo's "hello world" when the container is run.
And as you can see this is done in the CMD command.
Another image relevant to this course
is using OpenJDK as the base image this time
and turns the version of Java.
As a developer, you can start with an operating
system base image, and add your specific version of the JDK.
But if an image with the JDK version that you need
already exists, then you're more likely to use that.
Docker enables multi-stage builds using Dockerfile.
This is enabled by having multiple FROM statements.
Each FROM statement can use a different base
and each of them begins a new stage of the build.
You can selectively copy artifacts from one stage
to another, leaving behind everything
you don't want in the final image.
This allows build and run of the application
from the same Dockerfile, and yet have a lean
Docker image for production.
For example, first stage of a Dockerfile can be used
for development and would typically contain
everything needed to build your application.
The last stage could be a slimmed down version
to use only for production, which only contains
your application and exactly what was needed to run it.
Specifically in the case of Java, as shown
in the Dockerfile, you can use a batch of maven
as the base image for development stage,
and OpenJDK for the production stage.
We'll see a live sample of this later in the course.
As a Java developer you often wonder about
which Java base image should I be using?
OpenJDK Docker image is created
and maintained by the community.
It is a very popular download and supports
a wide variety of tags.
If you're looking for a no-cost, long term support
downstream distribution of OpenJDK
then Amazon Corretto is one of your choice.
An official Docker image for Amazon Corretto
is also available at hub.docker.com
So you can easily replace OpenJDK with Amazon Corretto
as shown in this slide.
Amazon Corretto is meant to be a drop-in replacement
for OpenJDK compatible JDKs.
You can of course use Amazon Corretto on desktop,
on Prime and on the Cloud, as a standalone download.
It is important to understand what is build context
when building a Docker image.
Docker image is built using Docker image build command.
This command takes a path or a URL.
By default Dockerfile exists at the root
of this path or URL.
An instruction in the Dockerfile such as ADD
will resolve files in the local file system
using this build context.
The build context is sent to the Docker engine
so it is recommended to create a new directory,
copy the Dockerfile and other necessary artifacts
in that directory, and then issue the build command.
Alternatively you can also use .dockerignore,
very much like .gitignore to exclude files
and directories from the build context.
Each image is uniquely identified with a name and a tag.
When building an image you need to assign a name
to the image and optionally tag it.
If no tag is provided then the latest tag is used.
Here is a sample command that shows how to build
an image and give it a name and a tag.
Docker image build is the command, -t is an option
that allows to specify name and tag in the format
name:tag, and dot in this case, which is current
directory, provides the build context.
Running an image launches a container.
Docker container run command is used to run the container,
you just need to specify the image name.
As explained in the Docker workflow, the CLI will
give this command to the Docker engine,
which will check if the image is already available
on server host.
Download it if needed and then run the container.
By default the container runs in foreground.
- d option allows to run the container
in detach or background mode.
Multiple options to the command can be combined such as -it.
Here -i keep STDIN open
and -t allocates a pseudo-tty.
By default no ports of the containers are published
to the outside world, however a port can be explicitly
made available using port forwarding.
This is done using the -p option
during the Docker container run command.
This allows to map a container port
to a specific port on the host.
Multiple ports can be published using -p.